   * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- *
   *                                                                     *
   *                      DarkCYDE_Communications                        *
   *                             Newsletter                              *
   *                                                                     *
   * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- *
  .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.
 ( * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- v1.0 Sept 98}}}=-={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * )
  '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'
  .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.
 ( * -={{{*}}}The Worlds Largest ACTIVE Phreaking / Hacking Group{*}}}=- * )
  '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'
  .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.
 ( * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * )
  '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'

mmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmm Whats new in DarkCYDE  mmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmm

                         What the Memebers are doing

                            Official Members List

                      What we admit to doing this month

                               Our Manifesto

mmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmm Shouts mmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmm

                             _Whats New in dC_

September has been a slow month for DarkCYDE due to the corrupt operation of
various Telecommunication mediums. Every week new people have been applying 2 
join DarkCYDE. DarkCYDE has nearly reached it's full capacity of 35 members.
Due to this explosion of new members, new rules to join DarkCYDE have been
applied. Also We have begun to streamline the members list... The folowing
rules apply if you wan't to join DarkCYDE:

-If you wan't to join DarkCYDE you will need to write an article for us on 1
 of the following subjects:

 * Phreaking UK / Ireland / US Specific. All txts must be prersentable and 
   origionial. Scans are accepted, providing you scan a prefix that has never
   been done before.

        -If you submit a scan it must be no less than 500 numbers
        -The scan must be in the following format:    _____ description
                                                    /
           0800-967-028            6-did passcode extender
                         \___ 2 tabs
                           
        -If you do submit a scan, you will be emailed *ALL* of the dC scans
         ie- if you scan 500 numbers you will recieve 20 thousand numbers
         back.
 
 * Hacking UK / Ireland / US Specific. Again ALL txts should be origional.

 * If you code, you can submit any fully working program.  The function
   of the program is entirly up to you.

 * You must have have a VoiceMail system of your own, which we can use to 
   contact you. 

 * We do not accept script/warez kiddies into DarkCYDE.

 * You must have a fairly respectable working knowledge of a wide range of 
   telecommunications / networking systems. This knowledge must not be solely
   aquired from other peoples files.

 * When applying via email, you need to provide your PGP public key 
   (preferably PGP for DOS 2.6.3i) and encrypt your application using the
   Key provided. Any un-encryted emails will NOT be replied to.

Type Bits/KeyID    Date       User ID
pub  2048/6B8B0C05 1998/09/07 darkcyde <communications>

-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Version: 2.6.3i

mQENAjX0IHsAAAEIALHICqzTNqjZV5aU1ZTIYig8TzaWJRGwKFAo52smf+nAQx5m
SgNvjgzLnfHKhwN/8pfZuCVi4/MdyrFxKiL5seibekdxqXxAFbQSXhqs419fXrVy
fWIyJs+Wc9JgFbS4dccx/kYKrvjr3YdhLg88iWYAd56Pou6cYpAn0oM772rKVeuH
RQk24A/HXuv+S6926mCOydMImRayCRYJx/IqV1X97EMP7I5SnzL58JVEghZrVCgF
1S664tGOPFsl5gUiyz8bqYKLu5WmsyrfzOK44NRoma1y74QU5B6wxTKioo+0spLh
RCTgEzRTQF26R224DgOBxqj4TnYeBYdbj2uLDAUABRG0GWRhcmtjeWRlIDxjb21t
dW5pY2F0aW9ucz4=
=b9ER
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
 
 * You must provide a brief profile of yourself, ie- what you do, and various 
   other things.. such as age (optional) and rough location. You must also
   tell us if you have been in any other groups in the past, or are in 1 
   already.

 * To apply via email, please email ANY of the listed dC members, using the 
   DarkCYDE PGP Public KEY.

mmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMM

                       DarkCYDE_Communications 'Rules'

dC origionaly had no rules, but because of the amount of members, a few basic
rules have been implimented:

* If you join dC and you are IDLE, ie- You don't do anything for over 3-weeks
  you will be automatically kicked from DarkCYDE. This sounds un-fair, but if
  you join and just sit there absorbing info and not giving any back, it's not 
  fair on the more ACTIVE members.

* ALL email transmissions between DarkCYDE members MUST be encrypted with PGP.
  (please note that any applications must be sent to the dC member relaevant
  to your location)

* If you submit something for DarkCYDE, you must not submit it to ANY other
  group. ALL dC txt's are origional, we wan't it to stay that way.

* ALL dC members must NOT discuss dC 'operations' outside of the group.

Those are just some simple rules that must be followed if you are in DarkCYDE.

mmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMM

                          What the Members are Doing

This part of the newsletter will not contain much 'detailed' information, due
to the security of various DarkCYDE members. Although we can provide a brief
description of what people have been doing. This month Nitrous_Oxcyde cracked
over 8 long distance extender codes... (of cource where the numbers terminate
will not be publicised). r00fies begun work on the DarkCYDE website :
(www.darkcyde.org) -over 1050 txt philes will be available to download soon.
Elf and DownTime take over the US part of DarkCYDE. Hybrid releses his new
file 'Intermediate guide to UK Phreaking' (h3phreak.txt) and also an update
file on 'Latitude MeetingPlace Teleconferencing' (latmeet.txt). Dougal 
produces a program which hacks VMB/Profile codes online. PUBLiC_NUiSANCE 
begins work on 'The Ultimate MM Guide' -soon to be realesed. r00fies realeses
a file 'Guide to PaBX's in the UK, soon to be uploaded to the website. 
FireStart (The head of the Irish part of DarkCYDE) discovers the Irish
country direct numbers (1800-55x-xxx).

The official DarkCYDE IRC channel begins to fill up (UnderNet #darkcyde)

Hybrid and Red_Mist begin work on the new DarkCYDE eZine, cleaverly named
over a few pints of beer as 'C.U.N.T zine. Computer Underground Network
Transmission'

2 New alliances formed with (PHaT, the Hax0ring cluB, headed by DreadNight.)
And (TechnoPhreaks, headed by Chimmy)

Unforunatly this is the only information we can give to non-members, to learn
more goto the DarkCYDE website at www.darkcyde.org.

mmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMM

                   Full Official DarkCYDE Members List


  .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.
 ( * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * )
  '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'
                                 DarkCYDE is
  .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.   .-=-.   .-.
 ( * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * -={{{*}}}=- * )
  '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'   '-=-'   '-'

Hybrid                    g0d@deathsdoor.com                        UK
PUBLiC_NUiSANCE           public_nuisance@mailcity.com              N.Ire
Nitrous0xcyde             n2oxide@hotmail.com                       N.Ire
Red_LED                   red_led@hotmail.com                       UK
uV                        WOMBAT454@MY-DEJANEWS.COM                 UK
________________________________________________________________________________

r00fies                   extreemuk@hotmail.com                     UK

gr1p                      jf@linenoise.org                          UK

SinTax                    syntax_47@hotmail.com                     UK

FireStart                 majestik_12@hotmail.com                   Ire

Acid_Kill                                                           Ire

DownTime                  blackseal@tecinfo.com                     US

Elf                       elf187@yahoo.com                          US

AC-3                      AC-3@bigfoot.com                          UK

FireStarter               xellent55@hotmail.com                     UK

Barakis                   barakis@hotmail.com                       Sco

Evil0nion                 onion4@hotmail.com                        Sco

VHF                                                                 Sco

Mistress                                                            Sco

Dougal                    ian_donovan@yahoo.com                     UK

vLad~Impaler              vladdracul@iname.com                      US

Zomba                     zomba@iname.com                           UK

TurboMan                  TurboMan@turbosystems.demon.co.uk         Ire

Nomo                      thenommo@mailcity.com                     UK

Red_MIST                  red_mist@hotmail.com                      UK

OrganisedKhaos            roland@cpwtv.globalnet.co.uk              UK

PhrozenGhost              phrozen_ghost@hotmail.com                 CAN

KOn FuSiON                kon_fusion@yahoo.com                      UK

JEB / SIL                 JEB926@aol.com                            UK

Chimmy                    chimmy@innocent.com                       UK

LOCO                      vongrief@hotmail.com                      UK

Auqua                     one@crossbar.demon.co.uk                  UK

Force                     M.Hatchard@btinternet.com                 UK

Zer0nine                                                            US

Violator                  violatr@hotmail.com                       UK

Photek7                                                             N.Ire


            (If you are in dC and notice you are not on the members list
             it could be that you have been IDLE for the past 3 weeks and
             have been kicked, or I just forgot to add you)

________________________________________________________________________________

                                 -Alliances-


                      Twisted_Nickle US #phonez (undernet) 

                                   PHaT UK

                   TechnoPhreaks UK  #technophreaks (dalnet)  
                   

_____________________________________________________________________________

                      The VERY brief DarkCYDE Manifesto


* To Phreak Everything, record info and relay

* To Hack Everything, record info and relay

* To experiment with EVERY switch

* To form a VERY underground network of Phreakers and Hackers so they can
  discuss things in a less public forum

* To unite Phreakers and Hackers all over the world into 1 big 'digital army'

mmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMMMmmmMM

                                  Shouts!

Twisted Nickle alliance- Digital_Fokus, SIM, Vile, Nothing, DeadKirt,  
                         Zer0divide and HighV0ltage.

PHaT alliance-           Heads- DreadNight and 1ceBurN.

TechnoPhreaks alliance-  Headed by Chimmy.

9x 

se7en, Borgie, and all the other c0nf wh0res :) 

BeeTee, Ironica, C/W, AT&T, Bell, Nynex etc... You know who you are, but not
what we've done, ;)

Anyways, thats it for this Newsletter, keep an eye out for C.U.N.7 eZine!

 
            _________________
           /            __   \       Speak to us on the DEFC0N voice BBS:
           |           (__)  |
           |                 |       (001) 801-855-3326 (24hrs)
           | .-----.   .--.  |       VoiceBridge 1.
           | |     |  /    \ |
           | '-----'  \    / |
           |           |  |  |
           | LI LI LI  |  |  |          UnderNet #darkcyde
           | LI LI LI  |  |  |Oo
           | LI LI LI  |  |  |`Oo
           | LI LI LI  |  |  |  Oo
           |           |  |  |   Oo
           | .------. /    \ |   oO     DarkCYDE_Communications, Phreaking
           | |      | \    / |   Oo     and Hacking into the Millenium....
           | '------'  '-oO  |   oO     ....Draging the old skool with us
           |          .---Oo |   Oo
           |          ||  ||`Oo  oO
           |  BT      |'--'| | OoO      
           |          '----' |
           \_________________/
       _
      //\  ~~~~  ~ ~~Your call cannot be completed as dialed, 2BM ~
     | \/ ~~ ~~  ~~ ~ ~~ ~   ~~~~~~~  ~ ~~~~~ ~~ ~    ~ ~
     ||~                                             _     _
     ||_                                            [ L___I ]
     | /\                                          |   ...   |
    ,@\\/    ,@@@,            ,@@@@@,              |   :::   |
    @,    ,@@"   "@@@,     ,@@"     "@@@,    ,@@@@"|   '''   |
    "@@@@@"          "@@@@@"            "@@@@"     '========='























