
                ---------------------------------------------
                -----{ Darkcyde Communications present }-----
                -----{         Meridian Mail I         }-----
                -----{  Advanced Administration Specs  }-----
                -----{     A guide for the phreak      }-----
                -----{    And system administrators    }-----
                ---------------------------------------------


Everyone has heard of meridian mail, one of the most advanced voicemail and
internal switching networks available. This file has been compiled from
meridian mail introduction guides and specification manuals and is intended
as an informational resource for anybody with an interest in the meridian
phone system. This file contains the most up to date information on meridian,
as of April 1999 and should remain a good technical reference for some time
to come.

        ------------------{     Index     }----------------------

        o  Meridian Administration Tool (MAT) Alarm Managment Module
        o  A Brief History of the Meridian 1
        o  Call Accounting & Call Tracking "Detect and Alarm Toll Fraud"
        o  Common Services
        o  Meridian 1 Electronic Switched Network (ESN)
        o  ESN Analysis and Reporting Tool (ART)
        o  Meridian 1 Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN)
        o  MAT administration tools
        o  Meridian Integrated Conference Bridge (MICB)
        o  Meridian Integrated RAN (MIRAN)
        o  Meridian 1 Remote Services
        o  MAT Traffic Analysis Module



********************
MM1 MAT alarm system
********************

Alarm Management Module
***********************
Alarm Management lets you prioritize and sort system events. You can set your
own event thresholds for system alarms, modify standard severity defaults and
define alarm escalation parameters to meet your individual needs. With Alarm
Management, it is easy to obtain on-screen descriptions of all system events
and quickly sort them as action or non-action items, according to degree of
severity. Event severity thresholds can than be changed when necessary. The
Alarm Management System Event Monitor provides an on-going log of all
Meridian 1 events. An integrated on-screen Alarm Banner provides an
additional convenient summary window of new "critical"," major" and "minor"
alarms. Each time a new event triggers an alarm, the appropriate alert box in
the Alarm Banner window will flash to alert you.

*********************************
A Brief History of the Meridian 1
*********************************

Historical Overview
*******************
In the early seventies, Northern Telecom recognized the need for a versatile
state-of-the-art product that could adapt readily and quickly to changing
conditions, a product that would give it an edge in a very competitive
marketplace. The SL-1 PABX (Private Automatic Branch Exchange) emerged,
featuring a digital switching matrix under computer control. The foresight of
the original development team continues to pay dividends. The challenge was
to design a system that would meet current needs while retaining the ability
to evolve without obsolescence. The key aspect of the system design is a
modular, highly flexible architecture in which the primary system elements
can be independently changed in whole or in part to address changing market
requirements. The system met an immediate demand for a full range of voice
and data processing features in a cost-effective package. Besides functioning
as a Private Branch Exchange (PBX), it also included key telephone and custom
calling features. These advances were achieved by incorporating several
notable industry firsts. A high-level software language provided significant
advantages over assembler language in terms of simplicity and implementation.
It also permitted improved, simpler ways for users to communicate with the
system. To complement the advanced PBX features, a custom LSI chip was
incorporated into a proprietary electronic telephone and its associated
peripheral interface. From a human factors point of view, replacing the
conventional telephone with a new electronic set was a prerequisite for more
effective business communications services. The SL-1 electronic telephone
provided simple, direct selection of features, and unambiguous system
responses to indicate the progress of calls. The main objective to reduce the
size of interconnectiong cable, as compared to those used for existing key
telephone sets, was achieved by using a form of distributed control in the
SL-1 set. The six conductor line cord in the SL-1 sets permitted systems to
be pre-cabled irrespective of the eventual use of either SL-1 or conventional
500/2500-type single line telephones at a terminal location. Another industry
first was the utilization of the codec on a per port basis to take full
advantage of digital technology. Ongoing silicon enhancements could be
introduced without affecting more centralized equipment in the system.
Peripheral equipment was packaged in increments of four line circuits an two
trunk circuits on associated individual cards. The first system shipment was
in 1975, and the product has continued to evolve, incorporating new
technologies as they become available. As a result, a continuous stream of
enhancements has introduced a series of system models, each building on its
predecessor with improvements in performance and capabilities.

The Digital World
*****************
In 1976, Northern Telecom became the first corporation to commit publicly,
with the Digital World announcement, to producing a complete line of digital
switching, business communications, and transmission systems. Every major
telecommunications manufacturer has since followed this lead. Today, Nortel
is the principal supplier of fully digital systems in the world. Its family
of digital business communications systems is among the world's most advanced
multi-function integrated voice and data switching systems.

The Intelligent Universe
************************
In 1979, Northern Telecom unfolded the Intelligent Universe to announce the
threshold of a new era for its product capabilities. Envisioned were new
applications of digital technology to create efficient, harmonious global
networks of simultaneous voice and data transmission that allow major office
communication functions to be undertaken in a single integrated system. In
addition, the formation of sophisticated networks would evolve to provide
comprehensive communications through intelligent terminals in which
information can be organized, stored, accessed, and received from any source
in the world.

OPEN World
**********
In 1982, Northern Telecom announced the OPEN World for information management
systems. The OPEN (Open Protocol Enhanced Networks) World was an extension of
Northern Telecom's proven expertise in the key areas of digital technology,
semiconductors, software, and integrated communications capability. It
presented a commitment to providing a planning framework, new products,
features, and services for the OPEN World. Northern Telecom's announcement of
OPEN World promised to create integrated communication networks that open the
technological barriers to user-controlled systems. The SL-1 would act as the
hub for such systems, giving the user the opportunity to install whatever
equipment is most cost-effective for the application. The OPEN World concept
encompasses the following five key criteria: continuity, compatibility,
congeniality, control, and cost-effectiveness.

Meridian
********
On February 14, 1985, Northern Telecom, in keeping with the OPEN World
promise, announced major enhancement capabilities to its SL family of digital
switching systems. Under the banner of Meridian SL-1 Integrated Services N
etwork, a new range of sophisticated information management services would
evolve including:

 Unique, high speed 2.56 Mbps pipeline to the desktop using conventional
 twisted pair wiring distribution 

 Range of fully digital telephones to increase the existing terminal
 portfolio using a new 512 Kbps digital distribution scheme 

The foregoing enhancements were accomplished through architectural extensions
that built on the existing system foundation. As such, they reemphasized
Northern Telecom's commitment to a continuity program that guards against
product obsolescence.

Meridian 1
**********
On January 30, 1990, Northern Telecom unveiled Meridian 1, a modular
communication system encompassing the industry's first truly global private
branch exchange (PBX) product line. Meridian 1 represents a merger of the
functionality of Meridian SL-1 and Meridian SL-100, Meridian SuperNode, and
Northern Telecom's remaining PBX products, into a single, modular
communications product portfolio. Meridian 1 capabilities extend from voice
and data features for very small organizations to high-capacity advanced
tandem networking, very large Automatic Call Distribution (ACD) centers (up
to 4,000 agents), multi-function military agency support, campus
communication systems, intelligent network node capabilities, and the bridge
to the FiberWorld of the future. Meridian 1 provides common hardware and
adaptive software for existing systems. This means that customers can upgrade
to the latest voice features, data connectivity, and sophisticated
information services for PBX applications ranging in size from 30 to 60,000
ports, the widest range in the industry, while retaining 80 to 90 percent of
their equipment. Noteworthy for multi-national corporations, Meridian 1 uses
globally adaptive technology that enables it to be sold and used in virtually
any country without major hardware modifications. Meridian 1 software is
compatible with recognized international communications transmission
standards. Additionally, Meridian 1 Digital Telephone Sets can be programmed
to give instructions in multiple languages. Meridian 1 provides a platform
for future growth and is compatible with communications networks of the next
century. Underscoring Northern Telecom's leadership in ISDN, Meridian 1
delivers ISDN Primary Rate Interface (PRI) and ISDN Basic Rate Interface
(BRI). In the future, the system will use fiber optic technology to provide
broadband capability, bandwidth on demand, and services such as high-speed
data and full motion video. The Meridian 1 introduced a product design
consisting of stackable modules that contain the various system elements.
Peripheral Equipment Modules contain line and trunk cards that connect a wide
variety of telephone and central office interface circuits. The modular
design offers the ability to grow from a single module through a column of up
to four modules into an array of columns that connect with existing equipment
to extend and serve application with up to 60,000 ports. The modular
packaging takes up to 50 percent less floor space than SL-1 systems and
allows customers to add lines and features in a simpler, more cost-effective
manner than ever before. The core of the product line is an Intelligent
Peripheral Equipment Module that works with both the Meridian 1 and SL-100
and has distributed processing, high-density line cards, universal trunks,
improved self-diagnostics, and an enhanced network architecture. System
Options provide the ability to select the configuration best suited to meet
the required business communication application within the 30- to 60,000-
port range. For applications up to 10,000 ports, Option 11C, 51C, 61C, and
81C, are available.

Meridian 1 in Cyberspace
************************
By 1996, the Meridian 1 once again led the enterprise communications industry
into the future with the introduction of Release 22. With the introduction of
this software release, all Meridian 1 products including the Option 11C, 51C,
61C, 81, and 81C were standardized on commercial based Motorola 680X0
processors and were equipped with ethernet connectivity as a standard option.
With the power and connectivity now in place, the Meridian 1 opened its
Ethernet doors to the world of system management with the introduction of
Meridian Administration Tools (MAT Release 5) and SNMP Alarm Agent. MAT
Release 5 supports communication to the Meridian 1 through the use of TCP/IP
over Ethernet or the use of PPP for serial connections. Graphical user
interfaces (GUI) are offered for maintenance activities in conjunction with
application protocol interfaces (API) instead of overlays. Context sensitive
help screens bring detailed technical information to users through number of
application modules such as: Station Administration, Traffic Analysis, Call
Accounting, Call Tracking, Alarm Management, Maintenance Windows, ESN
Analysis and Reporting, and on-line NTPs. Additionally, Release 22 also
brought Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) to the Meridian 1 to
integrate system management functions across enterprise networks. Joint
development efforts between Nortel and Cabletron, a leading provider of
computer networking hardware and software, provide SNMP compatibility to
Cabletron's SPECTRUM product line. Meridian 1 systems now appear as icons on
the SPECTRUM display along with those of other network elements. This enables
the surveillance of a user's network from a single display from which
individual alarms can be presented and then acted upon by management systems
such as MAT 5. In 1996, workplace mobility once again entered the forefront
of attention with the introduction of Companion Microcellular service for the
Meridian 1. This expansion of the Companion product line enabled users of
public digital cellular service to utilize the same portable handset whether
roaming in-building campus environments or out on the public macrocellular
environment.

*******************************
Call Accounting & Call Tracking
*******************************

Call Accounting Module
**********************
Call Accounting enables comprehensive call costing reports based on CDR
output. It can be used to provide details on the actual usage of the Meridian
1 helping you to assess the effectiveness of your telephone services or to
itemize calls to specific groups (or departments) for cost allocation, or for
individual billing purposes and other types of cost allocation. Call
Accounting is integrated with Station Administration, removing the need to
re-enter data that already exists within Station Administration. Station
Administration, however, is not a prerequisite for Call Accounting.

Cost Allocation Reports
***********************
Many predefined reports exist for your convenience. Cost allocation can be
looked at based on the time the call was made, the extention that made the
call, the department or division it came from, the account code used, and
more. In addition, many of the reports have report summaries that can be
generated.

Trunk Analysis Reports
**********************
Several trunk reports are also available, providing a call usage summary by
service facility and by trunk type.

Frequency Reports 
*****************
Frequency reports are another area of interest providing reports based on
customers, frequently called numbers, calling line identification (CLID),
call duration, hold time, and more.

Report Filters and Graphs 
*************************
All reports can be customized via filters to include or exclude records based
on criteria such as the date and time of the call, type of extension, trunk,
cost, department, division, authorization code, account code, duration, etc.
There are also a number of graphing options via a built-in graph generator.

Other Billable Items 
********************
This feature is used to assign any additional calls that are not being
recorded by the Meridian 1 to an extension, such as those from a calling card
or cellular phone.

*************
Call Tracking
*************

"Detect and Alarm Toll Fraud"

Day by day, your Meridian 1 operates, routing calls to and from your company.
Ever wonder what your traffic calling patterns look like on a realtime basis?
Using MAT Call Tracking, you can now visually monitor traffic patterns. How
long are station users on the phone? What percentage of calls are incoming,
outgoing, or via tandem tie lines? These are a few of the available features.
Better yet, you can set up your own meter to visually cue on the criteria
that you want to monitor. Have you ever been a victim of toll fraud? Want to
know who's making long international calls, as they happen? The integrated
alarm filter can detect these scenarios and alarm you when the event occurs.
With multiple alarming notification methods, the system is sure to reach you,
where ever you may be.

Features
********
Call Tracking is an on-line call monitor and alarm application for the
examination of call usage patterns leading to toll fraud detection. Graphs
are used to indicate trends and provide displays of unusual calls, enabling
you to adjust equipment and services to maximize resources. Multiple
filtering templates allow for your customization of *** toll fraud ***
criteria. The Call Tracking Module provides a number of alarm notification
options to alert you when the filter criteria have been met. Call Tracking
is designed to be used with Call Accounting but can also exist on a stand-
alone basis.

On-line Visual Monitors 
***********************
Call Tracking provides visual graphs to monitor call usage patterns. Multiple
graphs are available to look at such things as recent call history, percent
of calls by duration, incoming verses outgoing call origin, and more.

Filtering Templates/Alarm Definitions
*************************************
Using the CDR output from the Meridian 1, Call Tracking can screen the
information through filtering templates and alarm on any of the screening
variables. Examples of available fields are originating ID, terminating ID,
date, time, call duration, digits dialed, authorization code, and ring time.

Alarm Options 
*************
Alarm notification to you can be accomplished via a variety of methods. There
is always the standard screen, audible alarm on the PC, and printer. However,
Call Tracking also offers alarms via a network message, pager, modem and fax.

***************
Common Services
***************

At the heart of the MAT system is Common Services: a versatile set of core
elements. Common Services is used to create and organize Meridian 1 equipment
into individual sites and systems, launch MAT applications, define user
security privileges and maintain a log of PC events. Security is improved
with Common Services' single platform user login procedures. System
administrators can retain complete control of access levels throughout an
entire multi-site location and assign them on a per-site or per application
basis. At every level, shared resources and database information help to make
MAT the most productive and secure way to manage your Meridian 1 system.
Common Services also provides easy access to Meridian 1 system and
application Overlays via its built-in enhanced terminal emulator. This MAT
terminal emulator provides all the current Input/Output guides on-line in an
easy context-sensitive feature. Particular information on an Overlay is only
a mouse click away. Within an Overlay, help is available at particular
prompts for valid entries as well as information about error codes. MAT's
Overlay Enhancer allows you, or your staff to have the same level of
expertise at your finger tips as a Meridian 1 expert with years of
experience. MAT Common Services navigation and system configuration tools
form a solid foundation that all system applications can use to optimize
Meridian 1 performance.

**************************************
Meridian 1 Electronic Switched Network
(ESN)
**************************************

Networking is the interconnection of multiple systems for the purpose of
communications. ESN allows you to tie separate corporate communications
systems into one and share common network features and functionality's within
a unified private communications network. ESN helps optimize the cost and
performance objectives of your organization's telecommunications systems.
Many private networks have grown in a rather disjointed fashion, with each
office being responsible for the installation of local trunks and special
service trunks to handle local and long distance calls for their own users.
This results in an inefficient network with too many trunks, some of which
are not being fully utilized. An effective network can cut cost by
centralization of trunks, least-cost routing and control of calls.
Centralization of facilities can benefit your company greatly since cost
savings can be gained by allowing users at several locations to share in the
use of these facilities.

*************************************
ESN Analysis and Reporting Tool (ART)
*************************************

Electronic Switched Network (ESN) data can be displayed and sorted in
numerous ways with a single click on a column header. ESN data can be used to
define Coordinated Dialing Plans, Digit Manipulation, Free Calling Areas,
Network Service Class, Special Number Screening and much more. Limits, Time
of Day Schedules, Network Control and other data that is only defined once
for each customer is readily available and easy to modify if necessary.
The MAT ESN Analysis and Reporting Tool has the ability to convert Overlay
data to a form where it can be analyzed off-line in an easy-to-understand
spreadsheet format and then uploaded to the Meridian 1 at your convenience.
The ESN Analysis and Reporting Tool incorporates a full range of reporting
options. Custom reports can be generated for everything from basic data
information to a detailed customer-by-customer analysis. All reports can be
sent to the user's screen, printed using any network printer or saved in file
form. When all analysis and reporting has been completed, the data can be
reconverted to overlay form and transmitted to the Meridian 1.

**************************************
Meridian 1 Integrated Services Digital
Network (ISDN)
**************************************

The most advance networking technologies are found today within Nortel's
powerful integrated voice and data networks. An integral component of the
Meridian 1 product line, these powerful networks deliver proven solutions for
both simple and complex information and communication needs. ISDN is a global
networking strategy based on international standards. ISDN standards specify
two basic services: Primary Rate Interface (PRI) and Basic Rate Interface
(BRI). Both are made up of two different types of communication channels: "B"
channels, which carry user information such as voice, data, image, or video
at 64 Kbps, and the "D" channel, a separate channel that carries information
relating to the call setup, teardown, and feature activation. With the
implementation of ISDN on the Meridian 1, corporations have even more
powerful tools to substantially improve networking with even more flexibility
to integrate voice and data communications that best fit their organizational
needs. ISDN introduces powerful new features and services to further enhance
network performance to achieve even greater system flexibility.

Maintenance Windows
*******************
Maintenance Windows directly replaces several dozen maintenance overlays with
a single graphic window that provides convenient access to all your system
hardware. Not only will experienced users find this convenient icon-based
system faster and more productive, new users will quickly gain hardware
expertise compared to years of experience and many hours of training.
Convenient pop-up menus are also available for commands using the mouse.
Typical maintenance commands like "enable", "disable" and "test" are all
available from the menu bar. Only commands appropriate for the specific
hardware being accessed are displayed on the menu, making normal maintenance
operations almost effortless. Maintenance Windows connects to a Meridian 1
system via an Ethernet, PPP or Serial Connection and provides a convenient
replacement for overlay-based hardware maintenance commands.

Monitor and maintain all equipment from a single window:

     Core CPU 
     I/O Ports 
     Network Groups 
     Network Loops 
     PE Shelves 
     PE Cards 
     PE Units 

 "Nortel's (Northern Telecom) Window's-based system management solution just
  got better"

Nortel's latest release of Meridian Administration Tools (MAT) extends the
capabilities of this powerful suite of integrated system management
applications. With this release, all MAT applications now use the Microsoft
Windows 95 operating system. Now it is easier than ever to configure, control
and manage single or multiple Meridian 1 systems using convenient point-and-
click commands on your PC. The Meridian Administration Tools (MAT)
interactive demo will show you the business, cost, and productivity benefits
of our Windows-based suite of system management applications, helping you to
manage your Meridian 1 network.

Key benefits of MAT include: 

Interface

     Graphical User Interface - Microsoft Windows 95 
     On-line context sensitive help 
     Fast learning curve/lower training costs 
     Multi-user capabilities via LAN 
     Multi-site capabilities, supporting multiple Meridian 1 systems

Reporting

     Maximize system resources 
     Hundreds of predefined reports 
     Comprehensive custom filtering and reporting capabilities 
     Built-in multi-mode graphing engine 
     Import/export capabilities

Resources

     Integrated database for single point of information entry 
     Productivity enhancements 
     Scheduling for ability to complete tasks at your convenience 
     Common user login security

Available modules: 

Station Administration Module
*****************************
Station Administration is a MAT application that allows you to better control
your telecom environment. You can take control of your station adds, moves
and changes and perform the change when it is convenient for you.

Traffic Analysis Module
***********************
MAT Traffic Analysis is designed to convert Meridian 1 traffic statistics,
either on demand or on a scheduled basis, and present them to you in easy-to-
read reports and graphs. MAT Traffic Analysis provides you with reports that
translate complex traffic output into simple, easy to understand graphs and
reports.

Call Accounting/Call Tracking Module
************************************
Call Accounting provides comprehensive call costing by translating CDR (Call
Detail Records) output based upon a user profile. Call Accounting can be used
to provide details on the actual usage of the system for assessing the
effectiveness of telephone services or to itemize calls to specific groups
(or departments) for cost allocation and individual billing purposes. Call
Tracking is an on-line call monitor and alarm application for the examination
of call usage patterns leading to toll fraud detection.

Maintenance Windows
*******************
Maintenance Windows puts Meridian 1 hardware maintenance at your fingertips
with the ease of pointing-and-clicking a mouse. MAT uses a Windows 95
Graphical User Interface (GUI) to provide you with real-time status and
management of all hardware objects on each Meridian 1 system.

Alarm Management
****************
Alarm Management can provide the key to gaining control of the events
generated by the Meridian 1 system or a network of Meridian 1 systems. With
Alarm Management, you decide how events are defined and, most importantly,
which require the most attention.

*********************************
Electronic Switched Network (ESN)
*********************************

The ESN Analysis and Reporting Tool simplifies the management of private
networks by providing a convenient Windows 95 graphic interface that lets you
view, modify and print ESN data using any PC.

***************
Common Services
***************

The foundation of MAT is a modular suite of applications that allow you to
tailor your system management environment to your business needs. All MAT
applications run under a set of programs called Common Services. Common
Services provides a set of tools and utilities used by all MAT applications.
Common Services includes an Terminal Emulator with Overlay Enhancer - putting
Input/Output (I/O) User Guides on-line.

********************************************
Meridian Integrated Conference Bridge (MICB)
********************************************

Meridian Integrated Conference Bridge (MICB) is a fully integrated, all-
digital audio conference bridge from Nortel (Northern Telecom) designed to
improve and simplify enterprise conferencing capabilities. MICB provides fast
and reliable access to an in-house conference bridge, eliminating the need to
frequently contact conference service bureaus or accommodate complex third-
party conference bridge equipment. Offering simple plug-and-play installation
within a Meridian 1 Intelligent Peripheral Equipment (IPE) shelf, software
keycode activated upgrades, and a variety of flexible features for increased
conference control, MICB is an ideal solution for organizations requiring
frequent audio collaboration to keep multiple dispersed parties connected
with critical communication. As an integrated solution, a single MICB card
supports up to 32 ports and up to 10 simultaneous conference calls. There are
four MICB card capacity options available: 12, 16, 24 and 32 ports. If your
conferencing requirements increase, software keycodes activate additional
ports on the MICB card to support the larger port capacities. In addition,
multiple MICB cards can be supported within the Meridian 1 Communications
System.

MICB benefits include:

     Fully integrated single-slot IPE Card 
     Supports meet-me style conferencing 
     Flexible chairperson commands 
     Easy plug-and-play installation 
     Selectable password protection 
     Entry/exit tones or voice announcements 
     Multi-language voice prompts and menu displays 
     Keycode activated port upgrades 
     Simple menu driven operations, administration, and maintenance (OAM) 
     Ethernet connectivity for remote multi-terminal access over a LAN
     network

MICB maximizes conference control with a wide range of features that make
every call more efficient and productive. Flexible features include:

     Dial-Out/Transfer/Return 
     Lock/Unlock 
     Conferee Count 
     Conferee Disconnect 
     Selectable Entry/Exit Tones or Voice Announcements 
     Customizable Message Greetings 
     Music on Early Arrival 
     Increase Conference Size 
     Password Protection 

MICB Technical Specifications
*****************************

 Port Capacity         12, 16, 24, 32 ports 

 Capacity Upgrades     12 to 16, 12 to 24, 12 to 32, 16 to 24, 16 to 32, or
                       24 to 32 

 Systems Compatibility Meridian 1 Options 11C, 51C, 61C, 81C and earlier
                       Meridian 1/SL systems equipped with Intelligent
                       Peripheral Equipment 

 Simultaneous
 Conferences           Maximum number of 10 

 Memory Capacity       4-MB DRAM 

 Voice Prompt Languages

*******************************
Meridian Integrated RAN (MIRAN)
*******************************

Meridian Integrated RAN (MIRAN) is a fully integrated, multi-featured digital
announcer from Nortel (Northern Telecom) that empowers your business with
improved customer contact without increasing staff or operating costs. MIRAN
provides callers with easy 24-hour access to important recorded information,
such as your company's business hours and locations, special promotions,
schedule of events, advertisements, and much more. Each MIRAN card is
equipped with up to 10 recording channels. To accommodate varying traffic
requirements, MIRAN is available in three channel configurations-small,
medium and large-which can support up to 20, 36, or 40 concurrent calls
respectively. As traffic requirements increase, software-based keycodes can
activate additional channels to support the larger channel capacities. For
additional capacity, up to 16 MIRAN cards supporting up to 640 calls can be
linked together and managed from a single terminal. Unlike external third-
party recorded announcement systems, MIRAN eliminates the need and expense of
additional cabling, separate battery backup, and power supply equipment. As
an integrated solution, MIRAN provides simple plug-and-play installation
within a Meridian 1 Intelligent Peripheral Equipment (IPE) shelf, while
offering a variety of options for recording and managing multiple voice
announcements and music-on-hold selections.

MIRAN benefits include:
***********************

     Remote recording 
     Immediate message exchange 
     Flexible time-of-day messaging 
     In-service recording switchover 
     Keycode-activated channel upgrades 
     Simple menu-driven operations, administration, and maintenance (OAM) 
     Superior reliability with EPROM mass storage 
     Four minutes of recording time, upgradable to over 5 hours with plug-in
     PCMCIA cards
     Integrated Enhanced Universal Trunk Card 

 MIRAN Technical Specifications
 ******************************

 Channel Capacity       Small (5 channels), medium (6 channels), large (10
                        channels) 

 Channel Types          Single-connect channels and multi-cross-connect (MCC)
                        channels (i.e., small [4 single +1 MCC], medium [4
                        single + 2 MCC], large [8 single + 2 MCC]) 

 Systems
 Compatibility          Meridian 1 Options 11C, 51C, 61C, 81C and earlier
                        Meridian 1/SL systems equipped with Intelligent
                        Peripheral Equipment 

 Number of
 Recordings            16 recordings per channel with 4 minutes of memory 

 Memory Capacity       4.5-MB Flash EPROM memory storage 

 PCMCIA
 Compatibility         PCMCIA Type I, II, or III, with 3-MB to 170-MB memory
                       capacity

 Meridian 1 Interface  DS-30X, CE-MUX, card LAN 

 Power Requirements    Supported by Meridian 1 IPE Module AC/DC power supply 

 Playback Modes        Continuous and multi-channel level start/stop modes 

 Audio Connection      3.5-mm audio jack on MIRAN faceplate 

 Software Release      X11 Release 21 software or later 


Nortel exemplifies networking leadership by delivering networking solutions
that allow your organization the opportunity to decrease communication costs
while improving efficiency and management control of your communication
systems. Network solutions can be simple off-premise extensions, or very
sophisticated to accommodate complex networking requirements for a large
corporation. Meridian 1 networking solutions can be implemented for initial
requirements or added later to accommodate future growth. A variety of
networking solutions are available. Electronic Switched Network (ESN) allows
your company to create and control a flexible network for communication among
company locations and the public network. Integrated Services Digital Network
(ISDN) provides integrated voice and data capability and advanced network
applications for enhanced digital networks. And Nortel's Meridian 1 Remote
Services Portfolio offer products such as Fiber Remote, Fiber Remote Multi-
IPE, Carrier Remote, Mini Carrier Remote, Line-side T1 Interface, and Off-
Premise Station (OPS) Analog Line Card. Each remote solution is designed to
extend the value and power of the Meridian 1 to your entire organization and
to provide you with the best return on your investment.

**************************
Meridian 1 Remote Services
**************************

Whether your business is spread across a campus or multiple geographic
locations, the Meridian 1 Remote Services portfolio provides the optimal
solution to meet your remote communication needs. Besides using Meridian 1's
powerful ISDN capabilities to link multiple locations, you also have the
option to choose among a flexible range of remote service products. These
products include Fiber Remote, Fiber Remote Multi-IPE, Carrier Remote, Line-
Side T1 Interface, and Off-Premise Station (OPS) Analog Line Card. Each
remote solution is designed to extend the value and power of the Meridian 1
to your entire organization and to provide you with the best return on your
investment.

Single Switch Solutions
***********************
Fiber Remote, Fiber Remote Multi-IPE, Carrier Remote and our most recent
offering, Mini Carrier Remote, each offer a cost-effective, single switch
solution. With centralized operation, administration and maintenance, you can
significantly reduce operating costs. In addition, since a single Meridian 1
system is providing services for both local and remote users, all users take
advantage of the same features and services. Fiber Remote and Fiber Remote
Multi-IPE are the products of choice for a campus or high rise building
equipped with fiber. With either solution, you can extend an Intelligent
Peripheral Equipment (IPE) shelf to your remote facilities using dark fiber
cable pairs. Fiber Remote is ideally suited for smaller remote sites
requiring up to 256 ports while Fiber Remote Multi-IPE is more appropriate
for mid-range to larger remote sites. Both products deliver superior
reliability through optional redundant fiber links. The performance of these
links is constantly monitored, providing your remote locations with improved
survivability from fiber breaks and optical deterioration. If ever required,
switch-over and recovery are fully automatic. Both products are available in
two packaging options, a wall mounted cabinet configuration which offers a
reduced footprint that enables you to overcome space limitations, or floor
standing modules which can be stacked in a column up to four modules in
height. Both options allow you to easily add more lines as your organization
grows. To provide communication services to multiple geographic locations,
you can use Carrier Remote or Mini Carrier Remote to extend an IPE shelf to
remote facilities using standard T-1 circuits (Carrier Remote can also
support E1 circuits). Mini Carrier Remote is the industry's first remote to
provide survivability in the event of a link failure. It can support 1 or 2
T-1 links or fractional T-1 for even the smallest remote offices. Mini
Carrier Remote is the optimized choice for small remote sites (under 112
ports) or sites that require survivability. It is packaged in a wall-mounted
cabinet. Carrier Remote provides you with the flexibility to choose from 1 to
3 T-1 or E-1 circuits. In addition, you can provision one of those circuits
as a redundant link to provide increased reliability with a back-up
connection for your remote sites. Carrier Remote is available in wall-mounted
or floor-standing packaging options and is ideally suited for mid-range
remote sites up to 256 ports.

Off-Premise Extensions
**********************
Another alternative for providing communications to remote locations is the
Line-Side T-1 Interface. This new line card can be used to provide off-
premise extensions to remote locations. Analog telephone functionality is
extended over T-1 facilities and channel bank units, providing the telephone
at the remote site with full access to 2500-type line functionality.
The OPS Analog Line Card is another remote service that provides the ability
to extend features and services to 500/2500-type telephones located remotely
from the Meridian 1. This card interfaces with fax, key systems, Centrex, and
other external equipment requiring a standard analog line interface. It also
provides inherent lightning and power cross protection typically required for
off-premise locations or campus environments. If required, unused ports can
be configured as regular on-premise analog lines. With X11 Release 21 or
later, the Supervised Analog Lines (SAL) feature used with Line-side T-1
Interface and OPS Analog Line Card allows remote telephones to receive call
supervision, battery reversal supervision and disconnect supervision from the
Meridian 1. As you can see, the comprehensive Meridian 1 Remote Services
portfolio offers a variety of solutions to meet all your remote
communications needs.

Station Administration Module
*****************************
MAT Station Administration simplifies day-to-day station adds, moves and
changes to single and multi-line telephones. Station Administration enables
system administrators to configure telephone sets, program features and
assign Directory Numbers (DNs) and Terminal Numbers (TNs) for a single
telephone or groups of telephones. Station programming can be conveniently
accomplished via the PC, then uploaded to the Meridian 1 either immediately,
or at a scheduled date and time. MAT also automatically validates data input
prior to synchronization, providing relevant error code explanations in plain
English.

Telephone Graphics
******************
MAT provides a graphical representation of telephones supported by Meridian 1
so that the telephone can be viewed as it is being programmed. For added
convenience, features are applied directly to the keys on the telephone
graphic. Telephone models supported include:

     M2000 series telephones (M2006, M2008, M2616, M2216ACD, M2016S, M2317,
     M2009, M2112, M2018, M2018S) 
     M3000 Touchphone 
     M8000/9000 and Unity series analog telephones 
     QSU series (SL-1 telephones) 
     Standard 500/2500 telephones 

Telephone Templates
*******************
Creating telephone templates is the most efficient means to specify features
and key assignments to be applied to similar stations. For example, standard
templates for M2006 telephones can be created for lobby use, M2008 for staff
personnel, M2616 for secretarial or manager use, M2317 and M2216ACD for call
center agents.

Automatic DN and TN Assignment
******************************
To simplify the programming of multiple telephones, MAT can incrementally
assign DNs and TNs to each station. In addition, MAT keeps track of unused
DNs and TNs so that users can select from a list for efficient assignment.

Global Update (Universal or Selected)
*************************************
MAT allows users to apply changes to all stations, or to create filters to
allow the change(s) to occur only on selected telephones. 

Reporting Features
******************
MAT allows the user to create custom reports using MAT database information
which may include equipment inventory, hunt chains, etc. Custom reports can
also incorporate bitmap files (i.e., company logo) and special fonts. The
user also has the option of selecting from a list of pre-specified, commonly
used reports including:

     Automatic Call Distribution Stations, Class of Service, Dial Intercom
     Groups, Power Failure Phones, Message Centers, Private Line, Ringing
     Number Pickup Group, Speed Call Groups, System Speed Call Group,
     Telephone Directory by Department, Directory Number, Location, TN, and
     Name

***************************
MAT Traffic Analysis Module
***************************

MAT Traffic Analysis is designed to convert Meridian 1 raw traffic
statistics, either on demand or on a scheduled basis, and present the
statistics to you in an easy-to-read format. Traffic Analysis provides system
administrators with meaningful information related to Meridian 1 Trunk,
Attendant, Network Loop and CPU use. System administrators can use this
information to analyze Meridian 1 system resources, forecast growth and plan
for staffing requirements.

System reports
**************
Network and Service Loops, Dial Tone Delay, Processor Load, Selected
Terminals, Junctor Group, Command and Status Links and Application Module
Links, D-Channel, Multi-Purpose ISDN Signalling Processor Traffic, DCH
Management and Messages

Customer reports
****************
Networks, Trunks, Consoles, Feature Key Usage, Radio Paging, Call Park,
Messaging and Auxiliary Processor Links, Network Attendant Service

Customer Network reports
************************
Route List Requests, Network Class of Service and Incoming Trunk Group

System Threshold Reports
************************
Dial Tone Speed, Loop, Junctor and Super Loop Traffic

Customer Threshold Reports
**************************
Incoming and Outgoing Match Loss, Average Speed of Answer, Percent Last Trunk
Busy and Off-hook Queue Overflow Threshold


---------------{ EOF                 }-------------|
---------------{ typed up by hybrid  }-------------|
---------------{ th0rn@coldmail.com  }-------------| D4RKCYDE Communications
---------------{ darkcyde.8m.com     }-------------|
---------------{ #darkcyde EfNet     }-------------|









